---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "gravitee-apim_shared_policy_group Data Source - terraform-provider-gravitee-apim"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  SharedPolicyGroup DataSource
---

# gravitee-apim_shared_policy_group (Data Source)

SharedPolicyGroup DataSource

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "gravitee-apim_shared_policy_group" "my_sharedpolicygroup" {
  environment_id  = "...my_environment_id..."
  hrid            = "...my_hrid..."
  organization_id = "...my_organization_id..."
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `hrid` (String) Human-readable ID of a spec

### Optional

- `environment_id` (String) Id of an environment.
- `organization_id` (String) Id of an organization.

### Read-Only

- `api_type` (String) API's type.
- `cross_id` (String) The Cross ID is used to identify a shared policy group that has been promoted from one environment to another.
- `description` (String) The description of the shared policy group
- `id` (String) The id of the shared policy group.
- `name` (String) The name of the shared policy group
- `phase` (String) The execution phase of a policy.
- `prerequisite_message` (String) The prerequisite message of the shared policy group. This message is displayed to the user to help understand the prerequisite to use the shared policy group.
- `steps` (Attributes List) SharedPolicyGroup Steps (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--steps))

<a id="nestedatt--steps"></a>
### Nested Schema for `steps`

Read-Only:

- `condition` (String) FlowStep condition
- `configuration` (String) FlowStep configuration is a map of arbitrary key-values
- `description` (String) FlowStep description
- `enabled` (Boolean) Indicate if this FlowStep is enabled or not
- `message_condition` (String) The message condition (supports EL expressions)
- `name` (String) FlowStep name
- `policy` (String) FlowStep policy
